% Template for Cogsci submission with R Markdown

% Stuff changed from original Markdown PLOS Template
\documentclass[10pt, letterpaper]{article}

\usepackage{cogsci}
\usepackage{pslatex}
\usepackage{float}
\usepackage{caption}

% amsmath package, useful for mathematical formulas
\usepackage{amsmath}

% amssymb package, useful for mathematical symbols
\usepackage{amssymb}

% hyperref package, useful for hyperlinks
\usepackage{hyperref}

% graphicx package, useful for including eps and pdf graphics
% include graphics with the command \includegraphics
\usepackage{graphicx}

% Sweave(-like)
\usepackage{fancyvrb}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{Sinput}{Verbatim}{fontshape=sl}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{Soutput}{Verbatim}{}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{Scode}{Verbatim}{fontshape=sl}
\newenvironment{Schunk}{}{}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{Code}{Verbatim}{}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{CodeInput}{Verbatim}{fontshape=sl}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{CodeOutput}{Verbatim}{}
\newenvironment{CodeChunk}{}{}

% cite package, to clean up citations in the main text. Do not remove.
\usepackage{apacite}

% KM added 1/4/18 to allow control of blind submission
\cogscifinalcopy

\usepackage{color}

% Use doublespacing - comment out for single spacing
%\usepackage{setspace}
%\doublespacing


% % Text layout
% \topmargin 0.0cm
% \oddsidemargin 0.5cm
% \evensidemargin 0.5cm
% \textwidth 16cm
% \textheight 21cm

\title{Sticks, leaves, buckets, and bowls: Distributional patterns of
children's at-home object handling in two subsistence societies}

\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{array}
\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{wrapfig}
\usepackage{float}
\usepackage{colortbl}
\usepackage{pdflscape}
\usepackage{tabu}
\usepackage{threeparttable}
\usepackage{threeparttablex}
\usepackage[normalem]{ulem}
\usepackage{makecell}
\usepackage{xcolor}

\author{Kennedy Casey \\
        University of Chicago \\
        \texttt{\small{kbcasey@uchicago.edu}}
\And \textbf{Mary Elliott} \\
             University of Texas at Dallas \\
             \texttt{\small{maryle18@gmail.com}}
\And \textbf{Elizabeth Mickiewicz} \\
             University of Chicago \\
             \texttt{\small{lizmick9@uchicago.edu}}    
\And \textbf{Anapaula Silva Mandujano} \\
             University of Chicago \\
             \texttt{\small{anapaula@uchicago.edu}}   
\AND \textbf{Kimberly Shorter} \\
             University of Chicago \\
             \texttt{\small{klshorter@uchicago.edu}}
\And \textbf{Mara Duquette} \\
             University of Chicago \\
             \texttt{\small{duquettemara@uchicago.edu}}
\And \textbf{Elika Bergelson} \\
             Duke University \\
             \texttt{\small{elika.bergelson@duke.edu}}
\And \textbf{Marisa Casillas} \\
             University of Chicago \\
             \texttt{\small{mcasillas@uchicago.edu}}}

\newlength{\cslhangindent}
\setlength{\cslhangindent}{1.5em}
\newenvironment{CSLReferences}%
  {}%
  {\par}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

\begin{abstract}
Object-centric interactions provide rich learning moments for young
children, including opportunities to discover word meanings. Children's
first-person object handling experiences, in particular, form a key
source of input---one that varies across cultures and across
development. Using daylong photo streams from child-worn cameras, we
analyze \textgreater16k images to identify the frequency and targets of
child object handling across the first four years in two small-scale
subsistence farming communities on opposite sides of the globe (Rossel
Papuan and Tseltal Mayan). Overall, we see general consistency in the
distribution of object categories (e.g., consumables, mealtime tools,
natural objects, etc.) handled by children across cultures and age,
likely reflecting stable properties of children's physical environments
and day-to-day routines. However, the exact objects available to
children vary both within and across communities and diversify with age.
These various distributions of handling patterns are discussed in their
relation to potential consequences for early learning.

\textbf{Keywords:}
culture; object play; learning; daylong recordings; egocentric images
\end{abstract}

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

The objects that we regularly pick up and handle---a coffee cup, a
laptop, a baby bottle---offer a window into the physical, social, and
cultural contexts that shape our understanding of the world. In this
paper, we take a glimpse into everyday life at its beginnings by
exploring children's at-home object handling from early infancy until
age four.

\hypertarget{object-handling-and-early-learning}{%
\subsection{Object handling and early
learning}\label{object-handling-and-early-learning}}

For young children, objects---along with their associated activities and
surrounding language---form a critical source of input. Hands---others'
and children's own---are in good supply in young learners' view of the
world, especially after early infancy (Fausey, Jayaraman, \& Smith,
2016; Jayaraman, Fausey, \& Smith, 2017; Long et al., 2020). Children's
own object handling is relatively frequent (Casillas \& Elliott, 2021;
Herzberg et al., 2022; Yu \& Smith, 2013), and day-to-day interactions
with objects provide opportunities to learn multiple dimensions of
information, including objects' perceptual properties (Slone, Smith, \&
Yu, 2019), affordances and associated functions (Baumgartner \& Oakes,
2011; Rachwani et al., 2020), along with how objects can be categorized
(Bornstein \& Mash, 2010; Ellis \& Oakes, 2006) and referenced (Clerkin
\& Smith, 2022).

Children actively shape their own input via the objects that they choose
to pick up and handle. Children's own object handling influences not
only which objects dominate their visual fields (Suanda et al., 2019)
but sometimes also the language that they hear about those objects
(e.g., Chang, Barbaro, \& Deák, 2016). Caregivers' tendency to use nouns
referring to objects in the here-and-now positively predicts children's
early word comprehension (Bergelson \& Aslin, 2017; see also Slone,
Smith, \& Yu, 2019) by helping learners map word forms onto their
meanings in and across real-time interaction (e.g., Yu \& Smith, 2013;
Yurovsky, Smith, \& Yu, 2013).

A first step in determining what children may be able to learn from
these frequent first-person holding experiences is to examine
\emph{what} objects are being held.

\hypertarget{object-handling-across-cultures}{%
\subsection{Object handling across
cultures}\label{object-handling-across-cultures}}

The array of objects available to children varies in type and prevalence
across cultures. Objects that have spread via globalization (e.g.,
plastic bags) and objects with a basic functional role that has arisen
similarly across many groups (e.g., spoon-like tools for eating) are
likely to appear widely, while other objects remain specific to people
and places (e.g., the gourd and bombilla for drinking mate in much of
South America, stemming from Indigenous Guaraní and Tupí tradition).

Early access to objects is also shaped by culture-specific practices for
carrying children, keeping them safe and warm, and scaffolding their
development of locally-valued capacities (e.g., word learning in many US
families, walking in Kenyan Kipsigis families: Super, 1976; see Adolph,
Karasik, \& Tamis-LeMonda, 2010, for an overview). Take, for example,
middle-class US family homes, which have been noted for their
``clutter'' or large quantities of possessions---many of which are
designed specifically for children (e.g., toys and picture books: Arnold
et al., 2012). We might infer, based on these assemblages of home
objects, that much of what children do and talk about at home is
centered around what particularly interests them. Recent work by
Herzberg and colleagues (2022) underscores this point with data from
infants (13--23 months old) who spent nearly 70\% of their time in
object play with toys or a mix of toys and non-toys, with
\({\sim}100\%\) of infants playing with children's books and stuffed
animals, and a total of 32 toy types appearing in \({\ge}25\%\) of
infants' play. Non-toy play was also common but still predominantly
included engagement with infant-specific objects (e.g., sippy cups, baby
spoons, high chairs, pacifiers). We would expect many of these items to
be rare in other parts of the world and instead expect to find much
greater overlap between objects for infants and objects for adults
(e.g., Karasik et al., 2018).

\hypertarget{object-handling-across-age}{%
\subsection{Object handling across
age}\label{object-handling-across-age}}

Children's opportunities to engage with objects also change across
development. In early infancy, children have little ability to hold
things or to control their posture, so they primarily interact with the
objects that others bring near to them. Faces, rather than objects, may
make up a much greater proportion of their visual input early on
(Fausey, Jayaraman, \& Smith, 2016; Jayaraman, Fausey, \& Smith, 2017;
but see also Long et al., 2020). However, later gains in manual
dexterity and gross motor skill (e.g., sitting, crawling, walking)
increasingly widen children's ability to seek out and handle a diversity
of objects in their environments. Increasing motor abilities not only
give children greater control over what objects they handle but also how
they elicit social and linguistic information relating to objects, and
for how long (Adolph, Karasik, \& Tamis-LeMonda, 2010; Gaskins, 2000;
Herzberg et al., 2022; Kretch, Franchak, \& Adolph, 2014; Sanchez et
al., 2018).

\hypertarget{the-current-study}{%
\subsection{The current study}\label{the-current-study}}

While prior work makes a strong case for the impact of children's
object-centric interactions in supporting multiple dimensions of their
early learning, the findings: (a) are limited to a culturally narrow
sample of populations, (b) have tended to rely on short recordings that
limit the scope of the object-centric interactions analyzed, and (c)
have rarely examined in detail the distributions of individual objects
that children typically interact with at home (exceptions include
Bergelson et al., 2019; Casillas \& Elliott, 2021; Herzberg et al.,
2022).

In the current work, we use daylong photo streams from child-worn
cameras to analyze object handling by children under age four in two
rural, small-scale subsistence farming communities on opposite sides of
the globe: Rossel Island (``Rossel''; Milne Bay Province, Papua New
Guinea) and Tenejapa (``Tseltal''; Chiapas, Mexico). While these
communities are comparable in many ways (e.g., rural, swidden
horticulturalist, housed in multi-generation family complexes), prior
work has established substantial differences in the organization of
young children's daily lives, child carrying practices, and each
community's level of market integration (i.e., greater availability of
synthetic materials in Tenejapa), leading us to expect differences in
the objects that children handle across the day and early lifespan
(Brown \& Casillas, 2021; Casillas, Brown, \& Levinson, 2020, 2021;
Casillas \& Elliott, 2021).

Using these manually annotated photo streams, we first establish how
often children handle objects from different categories (e.g., tools
vs.~toys), both by the total handling time and by the number of unique
objects per hour. We explore the top individual objects in each site
along with the overlap that exists between communities. We then
investigate how the rate and characteristics of object handling change
with age.

Our findings reveal relative consistency in the broad composition of
objects handled by children (i.e., the overall distribution of objects
across different categories), both between sites and across age, with a
few important exceptions: a greater diversity of synthetic objects
handled by Tseltal children (e.g., relating to greater market
integration), more time spent with immovable objects for Rossel children
(e.g., relating to socializing time on or near household verandas), and
a greater diversity of held objects and greater number of transitions
between objects for older children. While we focus here on describing
the distributional patterns of children's object handling, we do this
with an eye toward the cognitive and linguistic implications of these
experiences.

\hypertarget{method}{%
\section{Method}\label{method}}

\hypertarget{corpus}{%
\subsection{Corpus}\label{corpus}}

Daylong photo streams consisted of images captured approximately every
15 (Rossel) to 30 (Tseltal) seconds over the course of 8 (Rossel) to 9
(Tseltal) waking hours at home. Children wore a recording vest equipped
with a camera (Narrative Clip 1) and miniature fisheye lens (Photojojo
Super Fisheye) that provided a 180\(\text{\textdegree}\) view of the
environment. For younger infants who were not yet walking, the camera
was instead worn by the primary caregiver (Rossel = 10, Tseltal = 12).

Previously, 83 daylong photo streams (113,668 images) were manually
annotated for the presence or absence of child object handling (Casillas
\& Elliott, 2021). Here, we further annotate and analyze the subset of
17,066 images with confirmed child object handling.

We included one randomly selected daylong photo stream from each of 78
children with object handling in the original data set (Rossel: 42,
Tseltal: 36). Children ranged in age from 0 to 48 months
(\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Rossel}} = 21.6,
\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Tseltal}} = 22.7). The amount of object
handling and thus the number of photos available to be annotated varied
across children, ranging from 1 to 631
(\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Rossel}} = 236.8,
\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Tseltal}} = 197.8).

\begin{CodeChunk}
\begin{figure}[h]

{\centering \includegraphics{figs/examples-fig-1} 

}

\caption[Example images with object and category labels]{Example images with object and category labels.}\label{fig:examples-fig}
\end{figure}
\end{CodeChunk}

\hypertarget{manual-annotation}{%
\subsection{Manual annotation}\label{manual-annotation}}

Photos were annotated with IMCO, an open-source Python application
(Casey et al., 2022). Annotators provided labels for the handled
object(s) in each photo (e.g., ``stick'') and selected among a set of
predefined categories to characterize each type of object (e.g.,
``Natural''). Categories included consumables (e.g., food, drinks, and
drugs), mealtime tools (``Tool-M''), toys, clothing, tools for working
or cleaning (``Tool-W''), large or immovable objects (e.g., furniture
and housing structures), natural objects, and miscellaneous synthetic
objects (see Figure 1 for example images and Table 1 for example objects
from each category). In the reported findings, \textbf{objects} refer to
any exemplars of a type of object (e.g., any stick), rather than
particular instances of an object (e.g., a specific stick).
\textbf{Categories} refer to the predefined categories used to classify
each object type (e.g., ``Natural,'' ``Toy,'' ``Immovable'').

\begin{table}[!ht]

\caption{\label{tab:top-objects}Number of unique objects (N) and objects handled by the most children, for each category, across sites.}
\centering
\resizebox{\linewidth}{!}{
\begin{tabular}[t]{lrlrl}
\toprule
\multicolumn{1}{c}{\textbf{ }} & \multicolumn{2}{c}{\textbf{Tseltal}} & \multicolumn{2}{c}{\textbf{Rossel}} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){2-3} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){4-5}
\textbf{Object Category} & \textbf{N} & \textbf{Top Objects} & \textbf{N} & \textbf{Top Objects}\\
\midrule
Consumable & 50 & tortilla, bean, guava & 37 & betelnut, coconut, tuber\\
Synthetic & 69 & blanket, plastic bag, bucket & 68 & blanket, woven basket, rope\\
Natural & 14 & stick, plant, tree & 21 & stick, leaf, rock\\
Toy & 42 & toy car, ball, book & 21 & ball, book, swing\\
Tool-M & 11 & bowl, cup, baby bottle & 21 & bowl, spoon, knife\\
Clothing & 21 & shirt, pants, purse & 16 & shirt, purse, skirt\\
Immovable & 19 & chair, door, table & 20 & stairs, veranda, wall\\
Tool-W & 30 & broom, clothesline, knife & 16 & knife, broom, baby bathtub\\
\bottomrule
\end{tabular}}
\end{table}

\hypertarget{data-preparation-and-reliability}{%
\subsection{Data preparation and
reliability}\label{data-preparation-and-reliability}}

Images were excluded if they were too dark, bright, blurry, or covered
for annotators to identify handled objects, if annotators were otherwise
unsure about what objects were being handled, if there was no handled
object, or if the researcher was still present when the image was
captured (\emph{n} = 1,140, or 6.7\% of the data set). To avoid
unnecessary data loss, all excluded photos were checked by at least one
other annotator and re-included for analysis if objects were
identifiable. In total, 15,700 images were deemed usable by annotators
(Rossel: 9,220, Tseltal: 6,480). One participant had no usable images,
so our analyses are based on 77 photo streams.

For reliability purposes, 20\% of photo streams were double coded.
Reliability annotations were equally spread across sites and ages and
included a total of 8,288 images. At the category level, annotators
agreed on 92.5\% of decisions, on average across photo streams (Rossel:
92.6\%, Tseltal: 92.3\%). At the object label level, annotators agreed
on 86.5\% of decisions (Rossel: 87.2\%, Tseltal: 85.9\%).

\hypertarget{results}{%
\section{Results}\label{results}}

\hypertarget{overall-frequency-statistics}{%
\subsection{Overall frequency
statistics}\label{overall-frequency-statistics}}

Children handled an average of 26.6 unique identifiable objects per day
(median = 27.0, \emph{SD} = 15.8, range = 1--58), with no significant
differences across sites (\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Rossel}} = 26.3,
\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Tseltal}} = 26.9, \emph{W} = 743.50,
\emph{p} = 0.935). The distribution of handled objects was highly
right-skewed within and across children. Each child's distribution was
skewed such that a small group of objects was handled in a majority of
their images, but most objects were handled for only short periods of
time (Figure 2). Across children, common objects followed a similar
right-skewed distribution: some objects were handled by many children,
but most objects were only handled by 1--2 children in each site
(Rossel: 54.1\%, Tseltal: 59.8\%).

Comparing across communities, 34.9\% of objects were handled by both
Rossel and Tseltal children, and several shared objects were among the
most frequently handled in both sites. In fact, among the top 25 most
common objects\footnote{The study camera was the object that was handled
  by the most children in both sites (Rossel: 69.0\%, Tseltal: 94.3\% of
  children; see Bergelson et al., 2019, for a similar effect) but
  accounted for a relatively small percentage of each child's object
  handling time, on average (\emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Rossel}} =
  3.7\%, \emph{M}\textsubscript{\emph{Tseltal}} = 6.8\% of images).
  Inclusion of study-related items did not qualitatively change any of
  the reported results, unless otherwise noted.}, 10 were shared across
sites (Figure 3).

\begin{CodeChunk}
\begin{figure}[h]

{\centering \includegraphics{figs/zipfian-objects-fig-1} 

}

\caption[Right-skewed distribution of handled objects]{Right-skewed distribution of handled objects. Points reflect log-transformed proportion estimates for individual children.}\label{fig:zipfian-objects-fig}
\end{figure}
\end{CodeChunk}

\begin{CodeChunk}
\begin{figure*}[!ht]

{\centering \includegraphics{figs/top-objects-fig-1} 

}

\caption[Non-study-related objects handled at least once by the most children in each site]{Non-study-related objects handled at least once by the most children in each site. Filled bars represent objects that were among the top 25 for both sites.}\label{fig:top-objects-fig}
\end{figure*}
\end{CodeChunk}

\hypertarget{effects-of-object-category}{%
\subsection{Effects of object
category}\label{effects-of-object-category}}

We quantified the distribution of object categories at two timescales:
across the whole waking day (i.e., overall \% handling for different
object categories across all images) and across individual hours (i.e.,
number of unique objects from different object categories per hour).

During any given hour, children handled 5.3 objects from 3.0 different
categories, on average (median = 4.0 objects, \emph{SD} = 5.0, range =
0--33). We exclude from the following analyses, any hour in which a
child did not handle any objects; inclusion of these hours creates a
second mode at 0, violating our statistical models' assumptions of
normality.

To test for differences across sites and categories, we ran individual
linear mixed-effects regressions for each of the eight object
categories, with category membership dummy coded (i.e., objects
belonging to the target category for a given model = 1, objects
belonging to other categories = 0). Each regression model included fixed
effects of site, category, and a site-by-category interaction as well as
random intercepts for individual children\footnote{lmer(unique objects
  per hour \({\sim}\) category (target/non-target; factorial) * site
  (Rossel/Tseltal; factorial) + (1 \textbar{} child))}. We found a
significant positive main effect for the synthetic object category
(\(\beta\) = 0.71, \emph{SE} = 0.09, \emph{t} = 8.15, \emph{p}
\textless{} 0.001) such that children handled more unique synthetic
objects per hour than objects from other categories. Additionally, we
found negative main effects for the mealtime tool (\(\beta\) = -0.61,
\emph{SE} = 0.12, \emph{t} = -4.99, \emph{p} \textless{} 0.001) and work
tool (\(\beta\) = -0.57, \emph{SE} = 0.15, \emph{t} = -3.75, \emph{p} =
0.004) categories, indicating that children handled fewer unique objects
from these categories per hour relative to other categories. A
significant significant site-by-immovable interaction (\(\beta\) = 0.75,
\emph{SE} = 0.17, \emph{t} = 4.31, \emph{p} \textless{} 0.001) revealed
that Rossel children handled more unique objects from this category per
hour than Tseltal children (Figure 4). Finally, the predicted effect of
a site-by-synthetic interaction (i.e., due to greater market integration
in Chiapas) was found to be significant only before correction
(\(\beta\) = -0.34, \emph{SE} = 0.12, \emph{t} = -2.76, \emph{p} =
0.11).

\begin{CodeChunk}
\begin{figure}[!h]

\includegraphics{figs/overall-stats-fig-1} \hfill{}

\caption[Rate of unique objects handled per hour across object categories]{Rate of unique objects handled per hour across object categories. Points reflect means for individual children. Asterisks indicate significant site-by-category interactions after correcting for multiple comparisons.}\label{fig:overall-stats-fig}
\end{figure}
\end{CodeChunk}

\hypertarget{effects-of-age}{%
\subsection{Effects of age}\label{effects-of-age}}

Prior work with the same image corpus showed a significant increase in
object handling across the first four years (Casillas \& Elliott, 2021).
By adding information about the types of objects handled by children, we
can now explore finer-grained characteristics of age-related change in
object handling behaviors. We investigate changes in (a) the
distribution of object categories handled over the recorded day, (b) the
number of unique objects and categories handled per hour, and (c)
transitions between objects and categories per hour.

\hypertarget{do-children-handle-different-types-of-objects-with-age}{%
\subsubsection{Do children handle different types of objects with
age?}\label{do-children-handle-different-types-of-objects-with-age}}

We fit individual linear regressions predicting the proportion of
handling time for each category as a function of age (in months), site,
and their interaction. We included number of images as an additional
fixed effect to account for the wide range in total available images for
each child (range = 1--631) and the resulting greater likelihood of
detecting proportions near 0 or 1 when there were only a handful of
images\footnote{As expected, number of handling images was correlated
  with age (\emph{r} = 0.49 {[}0.30, 0.64{]}, \emph{p} \textless{}
  0.001), which we attribute to changes in motor development and
  permitted object access over the first four years (Casillas \&
  Elliott, 2021). That is, the correlation is an artifactual outcome of
  development. Including both variables as fixed effects in a regression
  poses no technical issue in estimating \(R^{2}\), but does limit the
  total variance attributed independently to either variable (Wurm \&
  Fisicaro, 2014). Thus, for models of non-proportional measures, we
  rely solely on age to capture this variance (i.e.,
  lmer(non-proportional DV \({\sim}\) age (months; numeric) * site
  (Rossel/Tseltal; factorial) + (1 \textbar{} child)).}. This analysis
revealed no significant age-related changes in the frequency of handling
of different object categories and no significant site-by-age
interaction effects (all adjusted \emph{p}s \textgreater{} 0.05). Thus,
the the broad composition of handled objects remained largely stable
over age. \newline

\hypertarget{does-object-handling-diversify-with-age}{%
\subsubsection{Does object handling diversify with
age?}\label{does-object-handling-diversify-with-age}}

In addition to the overall age-related increase in handling found by
Casillas and Elliott (2021), we see that, with increasing age, children
handled more unique objects per hour (\(\beta\) = 0.15, \emph{SE} =
0.04, \emph{t} = 3.91, \emph{p} = 0.000; Figure 5A) and more objects
from different categories per hour (\(\beta\) = 0.07, \emph{SE} = 0.01,
\emph{t} = 5.70, \emph{p} \textless{} 0.001; Figure 5B). These effects
were consistent across sites; we found no main effects of site or
interactions between site and age (all \emph{p}s \textgreater{}
0.05).\newline

\hypertarget{does-object-handling-become-more-complex-with-age}{%
\subsubsection{Does object handling become more complex with
age?}\label{does-object-handling-become-more-complex-with-age}}

Analysis of children's relative rate of transition between objects per
hour (i.e., the number of transitions from one object to another divided
by the number of available objects for that hour) revealed an overall
age-related increase (\(\beta\) = 0.01, \emph{SE} = 0.003, \emph{t} =
3.77, \emph{p} \textless{} 0.001), along with a significant main effect
of site (\(\beta\) = 0.34, \emph{SE} = 0.13, \emph{t} = 2.66, \emph{p} =
0.009; figure 5C), which indicates that Tseltal children made fewer
transitions between objects per hour than Rossel children. While the
site-by-age interaction term did not reach statistical significance
(\(\beta\) = -0.01, \emph{SE} = 0.005, \emph{t} = -1.85, \emph{p} =
0.069), descriptively, this difference appears to be more pronounced for
younger children. At the category level, we found that children made
more transitions between object categories per hour across age
(\(\beta\) = 0.03, \emph{SE} = 0.01, \emph{t} = 2.96, \emph{p} = 0.005),
in addition to a main effect of site (\(\beta\) = 0.77, \emph{SE} =
0.35, \emph{t} = 2.21, \emph{p} = 0.031; figure 5D) that mirrors the
finding for object transitions: Tseltal children made fewer category
transitions per hour than Rossel children.

\begin{CodeChunk}
\begin{figure}[!ht]

{\centering \includegraphics{figs/age-effects-fig-1} 

}

\caption[(A) Unique objects and (B) object categories handled per hour as a function of age]{(A) Unique objects and (B) object categories handled per hour as a function of age. (C) Relative number of transitions between objects and (D) object categories per hour as a function of age. Points reflect raw hourly counts for each child, and lines reflect model predictions with shaded standard error regions.}\label{fig:age-effects-fig}
\end{figure}
\end{CodeChunk}

\hypertarget{discussion}{%
\section{Discussion}\label{discussion}}

In the current descriptive work, we annotated and analyzed 17,066 images
featuring at-home child object handling from children under age four in
two subsistence communities from opposite sides of the globe. Our main
findings are as follows: Children's overall handling of different object
categories (e.g., consumables vs.~toys vs.~natural objects) appears
stable across age and cultural context. In contrast, analysis of the
number of unique objects per hour revealed that children handled a
greater diversity of synthetic and immovable objects, relative to the
other categories, and did so to different extents across sites. The rate
of transition between objects also varied between sites. Finally,
overall time spent with objects across the day is Zipfian-distributed,
and many of the most common objects within sites were also common across
sites. We discuss this rich set of findings with respect to (a) object
handling as a window into children's worlds in general, and (b) the
implications of object handling patterns for word learning.

\hypertarget{objects-as-insight-into-childrens-worlds}{%
\subsection{Objects as insight into children's
worlds}\label{objects-as-insight-into-childrens-worlds}}

Our findings, while preliminary, suggest that different measures of
object handling reveal unique aspects of children's worlds. The total
time children spend handling objects of different types across the day
(e.g., natural, immovable, synthetic, etc.) appears stable across age
and sites (consistent with Long et al., 2021, for visually present
categories). Specifically, consumables and synthetic objects are most
prevalent. We suggest that this measure of \textbf{total time spent
within categories} may reflect stable properties of children's physical
environments and their routine activities, across age and across diverse
contexts. If we were to sample in other communities, we would expect to
find more differences (e.g., more time spent with toys in US
middle-class samples: Herzberg et al., 2022), but these two rural
subsistence communities show overall similar profiles despite
substantial differences in their current level of market integration,
organization of daily life, infant carrying practices, and other aspects
of their cultural milieux (Brown \& Casillas, 2021; Casillas, Brown, \&
Levinson, 2020, 2021; Casillas \& Elliott, 2021).

In contrast, the \textbf{number of individual objects} children handle
reveals strong age-related change, as well as some differences between
sites. Children's object handling diversifies within and across
categories as they get older, which means more unique objects handled
from more categories. We see that Rossel children transition between
objects more frequently than Tseltal children. This difference can
likely be attributed to culture-specific child carrying
practices---Tseltal children are often carried in a sling during their
early years and are therefore less freely able to seek out and handle
new objects (Casillas \& Elliott, 2021). Compared to other categories,
children handle a greater diversity of synthetic objects (stronger for
Tseltal) and immovable objects (stronger for Rossel) per hour. These
cross-site differences reflect the greater market integration (and hence
availability of diverse synthetic objects) in the Tseltal community and
the long daily periods of socializing around and climbing on family
verandas in the Rossel community.

We suggest that the individual objects that children handle give us
insight into development. Through identification of the specific objects
that children engage with, we can detect age-related changes, both in
object access and in the dynamics of object-centric interaction (e.g.,
rate of transition between objects). Moreover, knowing what objects
children handle can reveal many facets of everyday life that vary across
economic and cultural contexts (e.g., whether a variety of toys is
available for purchase nearby, or whether daily socializing takes place
on climbable surfaces).

\hypertarget{future-directions}{%
\subsection{Future directions}\label{future-directions}}

Here, we grouped objects on the basis of broad semantic categories.
While this categorization allows us to describe the overall distribution
of handling across different types of objects, it does not necessarily
give us insight into the specific associated activities or applied
functions of objects. Knowing more about \emph{how} objects are being
used in context could help (a) further indicate links between social and
linguistic behavior, and (b) reveal more changes over developmental time
(e.g., a spoon as a teething toy, musical instrument, and ultimately, a
utensil).

To more directly compare to existing data from other cultural contexts,
we will need to further analyze the temporal characteristics of handling
bouts and track unique object tokens rather than just types (Herzberg et
al., 2022). We note, however, that this second task will be
near-impossible for some object types in the Rossel and Tseltal contexts
(e.g., leaves, twigs). As of now, we find less within-site overlap in
the exact objects handled by Rossel and Tseltal children compared to
Herzberg et al. (2022)'s US data, but this could be as much due to
recording type (e.g., two-hour videos vs.~daylong photos) as to cultural
difference. Thus, future cross-community investigations with
parallel---ideally daylong---recording methods are needed to more fully
understand the influence of culture on children's typical object
handling experience.

Our current data indicate that children are exposed to a stable and wide
variety of object categories in the first four years of life. Children
also have increasing access to a diversity of objects within categories
as they get older. Similarity in the distribution of categories across
sites suggests some basis for expecting similarity in early object label
knowledge and other associated word knowledge by children in these two
sites. Individual objects also show a Zipfian distribution in how they
are handled, with some handled frequently and most handled infrequently.
This distribution may help support children's word learning (see
Carvalho, Chen, \& Yu, 2021; Clerkin et al., 2017; Long et al., 2021;
Montag, Jones, \& Smith, 2018), and in tandem with other observed
effects across age and cultural context, may indicate which words (i.e.,
object names or other object-relevant words) children are likely to
learn first and how their semantic networks grow within and across
categories. To determine more direct implications for word learning, our
most urgent goal is to analyze the speech surrounding bouts of object
handling to derive estimates of (a) how often objects are talked about,
(b) what type of information is mentioned, and (c) by whom. By combining
our existing annotations of daylong photo streams with time-linked
daylong audio data in two unrelated cultural contexts, our aim is to
develop a benchmark against which models and mechanisms of word learning
via object-centric interaction can be tested.

\hypertarget{conclusion}{%
\section{Conclusion}\label{conclusion}}

Analyzing the types of objects that children handle gives us a window
into what they are interested in, what they are allowed to access, what
they do and talk about with others, and more. Handled objects offer
learners a range of sensory experiences that could be paired with the
social, linguistic, and physical information around them. In the present
study, we examined coarse patterns in young children's at-home object
handling in two unrelated subsistence communities, finding many striking
similarities despite differences in the communities' market integration
and ways of life. Our data provide some basis for kernels of similarity
in experience across culture and change with developmental time.
However, our findings also point to immense variation in the assemblages
of unique objects handled by individual children and indicate that
children spend only narrow slices of time with a vast majority of
objects. Determining if and how these distributional patterns coalesce
to give rise to early learning is a key next step.

\vspace{1em}\fbox{\parbox[b][][c]{7.5cm}{\centering \textbf{Anonymized data and analysis scripts:} \href{https://github.com/kennedycasey/daylong-object-ids}{https://github.com/kennedycasey/daylong-object-ids}.\\
\textbf{Data visualization tool:} \href{https://aclew.shinyapps.io/CogSci-TSE-ROS-objects}{https://aclew.shinyapps.io/CogSci-TSE-ROS-objects}.
}}

\hypertarget{acknowledgements}{%
\section{Acknowledgements}\label{acknowledgements}}

This research was supported by a Gianinno Family Faculty Research Award
to MC. We are enormously grateful to the participants and their families
for sharing their daily lives with us. We also thank Will Fisher and
Shawn C. Tice for essential contributions to the annotation software.

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section{References}\label{references}}

\setlength{\parindent}{-0.1in} 
\setlength{\leftskip}{0.125in}

\noindent

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\begin{CSLReferences}{1}{0}
\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-adolph2010motor}{}%
Adolph, K. E., Karasik, L. B., \& Tamis-LeMonda, C. S. (2010). Motor
skill. In M. H. Bornstein (Ed.), \emph{Handbook of cultural
developmental science} (pp. 61--88). Psychology Press: New York, NY.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-arnold2012life}{}%
Arnold, J. E., Graesch, A. P., Ochs, E., \& Ragazzini, E. (2012).
\emph{Life at home in the twenty-first century: 32 families open their
doors}. ISD LLC.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-baumgartner2011infants}{}%
Baumgartner, H. A., \& Oakes, L. M. (2011). Infants' developing
sensitivity to object function: Attention to features and feature
correlations. \emph{Journal of Cognition and Development}, \emph{12}(3),
275--298.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-bergelson2019day}{}%
Bergelson, E., Amatuni, A., Dailey, S., Koorathota, S., \& Tor, S.
(2019). Day by day, hour by hour: Naturalistic language input to
infants. \emph{Developmental Science}, \emph{22}(1), e12715.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-bergelson2017nature}{}%
Bergelson, E., \& Aslin, R. N. (2017). Nature and origins of the lexicon
in 6-mo-olds. \emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences},
\emph{114}(49), 12916--12921.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-bornstein2010experience}{}%
Bornstein, M. H., \& Mash, C. (2010). Experience-based and on-line
categorization of objects in early infancy. \emph{Child Development},
\emph{81}(3), 884--897.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-brownIPchildrearing}{}%
Brown, P., \& Casillas, M. (2021). \emph{Childrearing through social
interaction on {Rossel Island, PNG}} (A. J. Fentiman \& M. Goody, Eds.).
New York, NY: Berghahn.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-carvalho2021distributional}{}%
Carvalho, P. F., Chen, C., \& Yu, C. (2021). The distributional
properties of exemplars affect category learning and generalization.
\emph{Scientific Reports}, \emph{11}(1), 1--10.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-casey2022imco}{}%
Casey, K., Fisher, W., Tice, S. C., \& Casillas, M. (2022). \emph{ImCo:
A {Python Tkinter} application for coding lots of images} (Version 2.0)
{[}Computer software{]}. \url{http://github.com/kennedycasey/ImCo2}

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-casillas2020early}{}%
Casillas, M., Brown, P., \& Levinson, S. C. (2020). Early language
experience in a {Tseltal Mayan} village. \emph{Child Development},
\emph{91}(5), 1819--1835.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-casillas2021early}{}%
Casillas, M., Brown, P., \& Levinson, S. C. (2021). Early language
experience in a {Papuan} community. \emph{Journal of Child Language},
\emph{48}(4), 792--814.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-casillasURdaylong}{}%
Casillas, M., \& Elliott, M. (2021). \emph{Cross-cultural differences in
children's object handling at home}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-chang2016contingencies}{}%
Chang, L., Barbaro, K. de, \& Deák, G. (2016). Contingencies between
infants' gaze, vocal, and manual actions and mothers' object-naming:
Longitudinal changes from 4 to 9 months. \emph{Developmental
Neuropsychology}, \emph{41}(5-8), 342--361.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-clerkin2017real}{}%
Clerkin, E. M., Hart, E., Rehg, J. M., Yu, C., \& Smith, L. B. (2017).
Real-world visual statistics and infants' first-learned object names.
\emph{Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological
Sciences}, \emph{372}(1711), 20160055.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-clerkin2022real}{}%
Clerkin, E. M., \& Smith, L. B. (2022). Real-world statistics at two
timescales and a mechanism for infant learning of object names.
\emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences}, \emph{119}(18),
e2123239119.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-ellis2006infants}{}%
Ellis, A. E., \& Oakes, L. M. (2006). Infants flexibly use different
dimensions to categorize objects. \emph{Developmental Psychology},
\emph{42}(6), 1000.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-fausey2016faces}{}%
Fausey, C. M., Jayaraman, S., \& Smith, L. B. (2016). From faces to
hands: Changing visual input in the first two years. \emph{Cognition},
\emph{152}, 101--107.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-gaskins2000childrens}{}%
Gaskins, S. (2000). Children's daily activities in a {M}ayan village: A
culturally grounded description. \emph{Cross-Cultural Research},
\emph{34}(4), 375--389.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-herzberg2022infant}{}%
Herzberg, O., Fletcher, K. K., Schatz, J. L., Adolph, K. E., \&
Tamis-LeMonda, C. S. (2022). Infant exuberant object play at home:
Immense amounts of time-distributed, variable practice. \emph{Child
Development}, \emph{93}(11), 150--164.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-jayaraman2017faces}{}%
Jayaraman, S., Fausey, C. M., \& Smith, L. B. (2017). Why are faces
denser in the visual experiences of younger than older infants?
\emph{Developmental Psychology}, \emph{53}(1), 38--49.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-karasik2018not}{}%
Karasik, L. B., Schneider, J., Kuchirko, Y. A., \& Tamis-LeMonda, C. S.
(2018). \emph{Not so {WEIRD} object play in {T}ajikistan}. {Presentation
to the International Conference on Infant Studies, Philadelphia, PA}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-kretch2014crawling}{}%
Kretch, K. S., Franchak, J. M., \& Adolph, K. E. (2014). Crawling and
walking infants see the world differently. \emph{Child Development},
\emph{85}(4), 1503--1518.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-long2020detecting}{}%
Long, B., Kachergis, G., Agrawal, K., \& Frank, M. C. (2020).
\emph{Detecting social information in a dense dataset of infants'
natural visual experience}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-long2021characterizing}{}%
Long, B., Kachergis, G., Bhatt, N., \& Frank, M. C. (2021).
\emph{Characterizing the object categories two children see and interact
within a dense dataset of naturalistic visual experience}.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-montag2018quantity}{}%
Montag, J. L., Jones, M. N., \& Smith, L. B. (2018). Quantity and
diversity: Simulating early word learning environments. \emph{Cognitive
Science}, \emph{42}, 375--412.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-rachwani2020learning}{}%
Rachwani, J., Tamis-LeMonda, C. S., Lockman, J. J., Karasik, L. B., \&
Adolph, K. E. (2020). Learning the designed actions of everyday objects.
\emph{Journal of Experimental Psychology: General}, \emph{149}(1), 67.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-sanchez2018detecting}{}%
Sanchez, A., Long, B., Kraus, A. M., \& Frank, M. C. (2018). Postural
developments modulate children's visual access to social information.
\emph{{Proceedings of the 40th Annual Conference of the Cognitive
Science Society}}, 2412--2417.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-slone2019self}{}%
Slone, L. K., Smith, L. B., \& Yu, C. (2019). Self-generated variability
in object images predicts vocabulary growth. \emph{Developmental
Science}, \emph{22}(6), e12816.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-suanda2019signal}{}%
Suanda, S. H., Barnhart, M., Smith, L. B., \& Yu, C. (2019). The signal
in the noise: The visual ecology of parents' object naming.
\emph{Infancy}, \emph{24}(3), 455--476.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-super1976environmental}{}%
Super, C. M. (1976). Environmental effects on motor development: The
case of {`{A}frican infant precocity.'} \emph{Developmental Medicine \&
Child Neurology}, \emph{18}(5), 561--567.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-wurm2014residualizing}{}%
Wurm, L. H., \& Fisicaro, S. A. (2014). What residualizing predictors in
regression analyses does (and what it does not do). \emph{Journal of
Memory and Language}, \emph{72}, 37--48.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-yu2013joint}{}%
Yu, C., \& Smith, L. B. (2013). Joint attention without gaze following:
Human infants and their parents coordinate visual attention to objects
through eye-hand coordination. \emph{PloS One}, \emph{8}(11), e79659.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-yurovsky2013statistical}{}%
Yurovsky, D., Smith, L. B., \& Yu, C. (2013). Statistical word learning
at scale: The baby's view is better. \emph{Developmental Science},
\emph{16}(6), 959--966.

\end{CSLReferences}

\bibliographystyle{apacite}


\end{document}
